packages/aws/docs/waf.md, before:

# AWS WAF

The AWS WAF integration allows you to monitor [AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)](https://aws.amazon.com/waf/)—a web application firewall for protecting against common web exploits.

Use the AWS WAF integration to collect and parse logs related to firewall activity across your AWS infrastructure.
Then visualize that data in Kibana, create alerts to notify you if something goes wrong,
and reference logs when troubleshooting an issue.

For example, you could use the data from this integration to spot unusual SQL injection and cross-site scripting attempts on your AWS-hosted websites and web applications, in a given time period. You could also use the data to review or troubleshoot the rules that have been set up to block these web exploits. You can do this by looking at additional context in the logs, such as the source of the requests, and more.

**IMPORTANT: Extra AWS charges on AWS API requests will be generated by this integration. Please refer to the AWS integration for more details.**

## Data streams

The AWS WAF integration collects one type of data: logs.

**Logs** help you keep a record of events happening in AWS WAF.
Logs collected by the AWS WAF integration include information on the rule that terminated a request, the source of the request, and more. See more details in the [Logs reference](#logs-reference).

> Note: The `waf` data stream is specifically for WAF logs.

## Requirements

You need Elasticsearch for storing and searching your data and Kibana for visualizing and managing it.
You can use our hosted Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud, which is recommended, or self-manage the Elastic Stack on your own hardware.

Before using any AWS integration you will need:

* **AWS Credentials** to connect with your AWS account.
* **AWS Permissions** to make sure the user you're using to connect has permission to share the relevant data.

For more details about these requirements, please take a look at the [AWS integration documentation](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/aws#requirements).

## Setup

Use this integration if you only need to collect data from the AWS WAF service.

If you want to collect data from two or more AWS services, consider using the **AWS** integration.
When you configure the AWS integration, you can collect data from as many AWS services as you'd like.

For step-by-step instructions on how to set up an integration, see the
[Getting started](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-observability.html) guide.

### Advanced options

#### CloudWatch

The CloudWatch logs input has several advanced options to fit specific use cases.

##### Latency

AWS CloudWatch Logs sometimes takes extra time to make the latest logs available to clients like the Agent.

The CloudWatch integration offers the `latency` setting to address this scenario. Latency translates the query's time range to consider the CloudWatch Logs latency. For example, a `5m` latency means the integration will query CloudWatch for logs available 5 minutes ago.

##### Number of workers

If you are collecting log events from multiple log groups using `log_group_name_prefix`, you should review the value of the `number_of_workers`.

The `number_of_workers` setting defines the number of workers assigned to reading from log groups. Each log group matching the `log_group_name_prefix` requires a worker to keep log ingestion as close to real-time as possible. For example, if `log_group_name_prefix` matches five log groups, then `number_of_workers` should be set to `5`. The default value is `1`.

## Logs reference

The `waf` dataset is specifically for WAF logs. Export logs from Kinesis Data Firehose to Amazon S3 bucket which has SQS notification setup already.

**ECS Field Reference**

Please refer to the following [document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html) for detailed information on ECS fields.

**Exported fields**

| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| @timestamp | Event timestamp. | date |
| aws.s3.bucket.arn | The AWS S3 bucket ARN. | keyword |
| aws.s3.bucket.name | The AWS S3 bucket name. | keyword |
| aws.s3.object.key | The AWS S3 Object key. | keyword |
| aws.waf.arn | AWS ARN of ACL | keyword |
| aws.waf.id | ID of ACL | keyword |
| aws.waf.non_terminating_matching_rules | The list of non-terminating rules in the rule group that match the request. These are always COUNT rules (non-terminating rules that match) | nested |
| aws.waf.rate_based_rule_list | The list of rate-based rules that acted on the request. | nested |
| aws.waf.request.headers | List of request headers | flattened |
| aws.waf.rule_group_list | The list of rule groups that acted on this request. | nested |
| aws.waf.source.id | The source ID. This field shows the ID of the associated resource. | keyword |
| aws.waf.source.name | The source of the request. Possible values: CF for Amazon CloudFront, APIGW for Amazon API Gateway, ALB for Application Load Balancer, and APPSYNC for AWS AppSync. | keyword |
| aws.waf.terminating_rule_match_details | Detailed information about the terminating rule that matched the request. A terminating rule has an action that ends the inspection process against a web request. Possible actions for a terminating rule are ALLOW and BLOCK. This is only populated for SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS) match rule statements. As with all rule statements that inspect for more than one thing, AWS WAF applies the action on the first match and stops inspecting the web request. A web request with a terminating action could contain other threats, in addition to the one reported in the log. | nested |
| cloud.image.id | Image ID for the cloud instance. | keyword |
| data_stream.dataset | Data stream dataset. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.namespace | Data stream namespace. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.type | Data stream type. | constant_keyword |
| event.module | Event module | constant_keyword |
| host.containerized | If the host is a container. | boolean |
| host.os.build | OS build information. | keyword |
| host.os.codename | OS codename, if any. | keyword |
| input.type | Input type | keyword |
| log.offset | Log offset | long |


An example event for `waf` looks as following:

```json
{
    "@timestamp": "2019-12-13T23:40:12.771Z",
    "agent": {
        "ephemeral_id": "ee12ef97-ab06-4022-b797-dc57893e4369",
        "id": "acba78ef-1401-4689-977c-d8c2e5d6a8fa",
        "name": "docker-fleet-agent",
        "type": "filebeat",
        "version": "8.10.1"
    },
    "aws": {
        "s3": {
            "bucket": {
                "arn": "arn:aws:s3:::elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867",
                "name": "elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867"
            },
            "object": {
                "key": "waf.log"
            }
        },
        "waf": {
            "arn": "arn:aws:wafv2:ap-southeast-2:EXAMPLE12345:regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE",
            "id": "regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE",
            "request": {
                "headers": {
                    "Accept": "*/*",
                    "Host": "localhost:1989",
                    "User-Agent": "curl/7.61.1",
                    "x-stm-test": "10 AND 1=1"
                }
            },
            "terminating_rule_match_details": [
                {
                    "conditionType": "SQL_INJECTION",
                    "location": "HEADER",
                    "matchedData": [
                        "10",
                        "AND",
                        "1"
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    "cloud": {
        "account": {
            "id": "EXAMPLE12345"
        },
        "provider": "aws",
        "region": "ap-southeast-2",
        "service": {
            "name": "wafv2"
        }
    },
    "data_stream": {
        "dataset": "aws.waf",
        "namespace": "ep",
        "type": "logs"
    },
    "ecs": {
        "version": "8.11.0"
    },
    "elastic_agent": {
        "id": "acba78ef-1401-4689-977c-d8c2e5d6a8fa",
        "snapshot": false,
        "version": "8.10.1"
    },
    "event": {
        "action": "BLOCK",
        "agent_id_status": "verified",
        "category": [
            "web"
        ],
        "dataset": "aws.waf",
        "ingested": "2023-11-08T08:24:54Z",
        "kind": "event",
        "original": "{\"timestamp\":1576280412771,\"formatVersion\":1,\"webaclId\":\"arn:aws:wafv2:ap-southeast-2:EXAMPLE12345:regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE\",\"terminatingRuleId\":\"STMTest_SQLi_XSS\",\"terminatingRuleType\":\"REGULAR\",\"action\":\"BLOCK\",\"terminatingRuleMatchDetails\":[{\"conditionType\":\"SQL_INJECTION\",\"location\":\"HEADER\",\"matchedData\":[\"10\",\"AND\",\"1\"]}],\"httpSourceName\":\"-\",\"httpSourceId\":\"-\",\"ruleGroupList\":[],\"rateBasedRuleList\":[],\"nonTerminatingMatchingRules\":[],\"httpRequest\":{\"clientIp\":\"89.160.20.156\",\"country\":\"AU\",\"headers\":[{\"name\":\"Host\",\"value\":\"localhost:1989\"},{\"name\":\"User-Agent\",\"value\":\"curl/7.61.1\"},{\"name\":\"Accept\",\"value\":\"*/*\"},{\"name\":\"x-stm-test\",\"value\":\"10 AND 1=1\"}],\"uri\":\"/foo\",\"args\":\"\",\"httpVersion\":\"HTTP/1.1\",\"httpMethod\":\"GET\",\"requestId\":\"rid\"},\"labels\":[{\"name\":\"value\"}]}",
        "type": [
            "access",
            "denied"
        ]
    },
    "http": {
        "request": {
            "id": "rid",
            "method": "GET"
        },
        "version": "1.1"
    },
    "input": {
        "type": "aws-s3"
    },
    "log": {
        "file": {
            "path": "https://elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/waf.log"
        },
        "offset": 0
    },
    "network": {
        "protocol": "http",
        "transport": "tcp"
    },
    "related": {
        "ip": [
            "89.160.20.156"
        ]
    },
    "rule": {
        "id": "STMTest_SQLi_XSS",
        "ruleset": "REGULAR"
    },
    "source": {
        "as": {
            "number": 29518,
            "organization": {
                "name": "Bredband2 AB"
            }
        },
        "geo": {
            "city_name": "Linköping",
            "continent_name": "Europe",
            "country_iso_code": "SE",
            "country_name": "Sweden",
            "location": {
                "lat": 58.4167,
                "lon": 15.6167
            },
            "region_iso_code": "SE-E",
            "region_name": "Östergötland County"
        },
        "ip": "89.160.20.156"
    },
    "tags": [
        "preserve_original_event",
        "forwarded",
        "aws-waf"
    ],
    "url": {
        "path": "/foo"
    }
}
```

Commit message:

update allowed and denied values in event.type field

packages/aws/docs/waf.md, after:

# AWS WAF

The AWS WAF integration allows you to monitor [AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)](https://aws.amazon.com/waf/)—a web application firewall for protecting against common web exploits.

Use the AWS WAF integration to collect and parse logs related to firewall activity across your AWS infrastructure.
Then visualize that data in Kibana, create alerts to notify you if something goes wrong,
and reference logs when troubleshooting an issue.

For example, you could use the data from this integration to spot unusual SQL injection and cross-site scripting attempts on your AWS-hosted websites and web applications, in a given time period. You could also use the data to review or troubleshoot the rules that have been set up to block these web exploits. You can do this by looking at additional context in the logs, such as the source of the requests, and more.

**IMPORTANT: Extra AWS charges on AWS API requests will be generated by this integration. Please refer to the AWS integration for more details.**

## Data streams

The AWS WAF integration collects one type of data: logs.

**Logs** help you keep a record of events happening in AWS WAF.
Logs collected by the AWS WAF integration include information on the rule that terminated a request, the source of the request, and more. See more details in the [Logs reference](#logs-reference).

> Note: The `waf` data stream is specifically for WAF logs.

## Requirements

You need Elasticsearch for storing and searching your data and Kibana for visualizing and managing it.
You can use our hosted Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud, which is recommended, or self-manage the Elastic Stack on your own hardware.

Before using any AWS integration you will need:

* **AWS Credentials** to connect with your AWS account.
* **AWS Permissions** to make sure the user you're using to connect has permission to share the relevant data.

For more details about these requirements, please take a look at the [AWS integration documentation](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/aws#requirements).

## Setup

Use this integration if you only need to collect data from the AWS WAF service.

If you want to collect data from two or more AWS services, consider using the **AWS** integration.
When you configure the AWS integration, you can collect data from as many AWS services as you'd like.

For step-by-step instructions on how to set up an integration, see the
[Getting started](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-observability.html) guide.

### Advanced options

#### CloudWatch

The CloudWatch logs input has several advanced options to fit specific use cases.

##### Latency

AWS CloudWatch Logs sometimes takes extra time to make the latest logs available to clients like the Agent.

The CloudWatch integration offers the `latency` setting to address this scenario. Latency translates the query's time range to consider the CloudWatch Logs latency. For example, a `5m` latency means the integration will query CloudWatch for logs available 5 minutes ago.

##### Number of workers

If you are collecting log events from multiple log groups using `log_group_name_prefix`, you should review the value of the `number_of_workers`.

The `number_of_workers` setting defines the number of workers assigned to reading from log groups. Each log group matching the `log_group_name_prefix` requires a worker to keep log ingestion as close to real-time as possible. For example, if `log_group_name_prefix` matches five log groups, then `number_of_workers` should be set to `5`. The default value is `1`.

## Logs reference

The `waf` dataset is specifically for WAF logs. Export logs from Kinesis Data Firehose to Amazon S3 bucket which has SQS notification setup already.

**ECS Field Reference**

Please refer to the following [document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html) for detailed information on ECS fields.

**Exported fields**

| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| @timestamp | Event timestamp. | date |
| aws.s3.bucket.arn | The AWS S3 bucket ARN. | keyword |
| aws.s3.bucket.name | The AWS S3 bucket name. | keyword |
| aws.s3.object.key | The AWS S3 Object key. | keyword |
| aws.waf.arn | AWS ARN of ACL | keyword |
| aws.waf.id | ID of ACL | keyword |
| aws.waf.non_terminating_matching_rules | The list of non-terminating rules in the rule group that match the request. These are always COUNT rules (non-terminating rules that match) | nested |
| aws.waf.rate_based_rule_list | The list of rate-based rules that acted on the request. | nested |
| aws.waf.request.headers | List of request headers | flattened |
| aws.waf.rule_group_list | The list of rule groups that acted on this request. | nested |
| aws.waf.source.id | The source ID. This field shows the ID of the associated resource. | keyword |
| aws.waf.source.name | The source of the request. Possible values: CF for Amazon CloudFront, APIGW for Amazon API Gateway, ALB for Application Load Balancer, and APPSYNC for AWS AppSync. | keyword |
| aws.waf.terminating_rule_match_details | Detailed information about the terminating rule that matched the request. A terminating rule has an action that ends the inspection process against a web request. Possible actions for a terminating rule are ALLOW and BLOCK. This is only populated for SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS) match rule statements. As with all rule statements that inspect for more than one thing, AWS WAF applies the action on the first match and stops inspecting the web request. A web request with a terminating action could contain other threats, in addition to the one reported in the log. | nested |
| cloud.image.id | Image ID for the cloud instance. | keyword |
| data_stream.dataset | Data stream dataset. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.namespace | Data stream namespace. | constant_keyword |
| data_stream.type | Data stream type. | constant_keyword |
| event.category | This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy. `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory. This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories. | keyword |
| event.module | Event module | constant_keyword |
| host.containerized | If the host is a container. | boolean |
| host.os.build | OS build information. | keyword |
| host.os.codename | OS codename, if any. | keyword |
| input.type | Input type | keyword |
| log.offset | Log offset | long |


An example event for `waf` looks as following:

```json
{
    "@timestamp": "2019-12-13T23:40:12.771Z",
    "agent": {
        "ephemeral_id": "ee12ef97-ab06-4022-b797-dc57893e4369",
        "id": "acba78ef-1401-4689-977c-d8c2e5d6a8fa",
        "name": "docker-fleet-agent",
        "type": "filebeat",
        "version": "8.10.1"
    },
    "aws": {
        "s3": {
            "bucket": {
                "arn": "arn:aws:s3:::elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867",
                "name": "elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867"
            },
            "object": {
                "key": "waf.log"
            }
        },
        "waf": {
            "arn": "arn:aws:wafv2:ap-southeast-2:EXAMPLE12345:regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE",
            "id": "regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE",
            "request": {
                "headers": {
                    "Accept": "*/*",
                    "Host": "localhost:1989",
                    "User-Agent": "curl/7.61.1",
                    "x-stm-test": "10 AND 1=1"
                }
            },
            "terminating_rule_match_details": [
                {
                    "conditionType": "SQL_INJECTION",
                    "location": "HEADER",
                    "matchedData": [
                        "10",
                        "AND",
                        "1"
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    "cloud": {
        "account": {
            "id": "EXAMPLE12345"
        },
        "provider": "aws",
        "region": "ap-southeast-2",
        "service": {
            "name": "wafv2"
        }
    },
    "data_stream": {
        "dataset": "aws.waf",
        "namespace": "ep",
        "type": "logs"
    },
    "ecs": {
        "version": "8.11.0"
    },
    "elastic_agent": {
        "id": "acba78ef-1401-4689-977c-d8c2e5d6a8fa",
        "snapshot": false,
        "version": "8.10.1"
    },
    "event": {
        "action": "BLOCK",
        "agent_id_status": "verified",
        "category": [
            "web"
        ],
        "dataset": "aws.waf",
        "ingested": "2023-11-08T08:24:54Z",
        "kind": "event",
        "original": "{\"timestamp\":1576280412771,\"formatVersion\":1,\"webaclId\":\"arn:aws:wafv2:ap-southeast-2:EXAMPLE12345:regional/webacl/STMTest/1EXAMPLE-2ARN-3ARN-4ARN-123456EXAMPLE\",\"terminatingRuleId\":\"STMTest_SQLi_XSS\",\"terminatingRuleType\":\"REGULAR\",\"action\":\"BLOCK\",\"terminatingRuleMatchDetails\":[{\"conditionType\":\"SQL_INJECTION\",\"location\":\"HEADER\",\"matchedData\":[\"10\",\"AND\",\"1\"]}],\"httpSourceName\":\"-\",\"httpSourceId\":\"-\",\"ruleGroupList\":[],\"rateBasedRuleList\":[],\"nonTerminatingMatchingRules\":[],\"httpRequest\":{\"clientIp\":\"89.160.20.156\",\"country\":\"AU\",\"headers\":[{\"name\":\"Host\",\"value\":\"localhost:1989\"},{\"name\":\"User-Agent\",\"value\":\"curl/7.61.1\"},{\"name\":\"Accept\",\"value\":\"*/*\"},{\"name\":\"x-stm-test\",\"value\":\"10 AND 1=1\"}],\"uri\":\"/foo\",\"args\":\"\",\"httpVersion\":\"HTTP/1.1\",\"httpMethod\":\"GET\",\"requestId\":\"rid\"},\"labels\":[{\"name\":\"value\"}]}",
        "type": [
            "access",
            "denied"
        ]
    },
    "http": {
        "request": {
            "id": "rid",
            "method": "GET"
        },
        "version": "1.1"
    },
    "input": {
        "type": "aws-s3"
    },
    "log": {
        "file": {
            "path": "https://elastic-package-aws-bucket-55867.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/waf.log"
        },
        "offset": 0
    },
    "network": {
        "protocol": "http",
        "transport": "tcp"
    },
    "related": {
        "ip": [
            "89.160.20.156"
        ]
    },
    "rule": {
        "id": "STMTest_SQLi_XSS",
        "ruleset": "REGULAR"
    },
    "source": {
        "as": {
            "number": 29518,
            "organization": {
                "name": "Bredband2 AB"
            }
        },
        "geo": {
            "city_name": "Linköping",
            "continent_name": "Europe",
            "country_iso_code": "SE",
            "country_name": "Sweden",
            "location": {
                "lat": 58.4167,
                "lon": 15.6167
            },
            "region_iso_code": "SE-E",
            "region_name": "Östergötland County"
        },
        "ip": "89.160.20.156"
    },
    "tags": [
        "preserve_original_event",
        "forwarded",
        "aws-waf"
    ],
    "url": {
        "path": "/foo"
    }
}
```
