packages/f5_bigip/_dev/build/docs/README.md, before:

# F5 BIG-IP

## Overview

The [F5 BIG-IP](https://www.f5.com/products/big-ip-services) integration allows users to monitor LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, and AVR activity. F5 BIG-IP covers software and hardware designed around application availability, access control, and security solutions.

Use the F5 BIG-IP integration to collect and parse data from F5 BIG-IP using **telemetry streaming** and then visualize that data in Kibana. The integration currently only supports JSON-formatted telemetry data generated by following F5 features: LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, and AVR. Ingesting or parsing the **syslog events** produced at the operating system level is not supported. Use the [Custom Logs integration](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/log) to ingest these system-level log messages instead.

The F5 BIG-IP integration can be used in three different modes to collect data:
- **HTTP Endpoint mode** - F5 BIG-IP pushes logs directly to an HTTP endpoint hosted by users’ Elastic Agent.
- **AWS S3 polling mode** - F5 BIG-IP writes data to S3 and Elastic Agent polls the S3 bucket by listing its contents and reading new files.
- **AWS S3 SQS mode** - F5 BIG-IP writes data to S3, S3 pushes a new object notification to SQS, Elastic Agent receives the notification from SQS, and then reads the S3 object. Multiple Agents can be used in this mode.

For example, users can use the data from this integration to analyze the traffic that passes through their F5 BIG-IP network.

## Data streams

The F5 BIG-IP integration collects one type of data stream: log.

**Log** help users to keep a record of events happening on the network using telemetry streaming.
The log data stream collected by the F5 BIG-IP integration includes events that are related to network traffic. See more details in the [logs examples documentation](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/output-example.html). F5 BIG-IP streams a variety of log types, categorized by the `telemetryEventCategory` field.

This integration targets the five types of events as mentioned below:

- **LTM** provides the platform for creating virtual servers, performance, service, protocol, authentication, and security profiles to define and shape users’ application traffic. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/big-ip-services/local-traffic-manager).
- **AFM** is designed to reduce the hardware and extra hops required when ADC's are paired with traditional firewalls and helps to protect traffic destined for the user's data center. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/security/advanced-firewall-manager).
- **APM** provides federation, SSO, application access policies, and secure web tunneling and allows granular access to users' various applications, virtualized desktop environments, or just go full VPN tunnel. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/security/access-policy-manager).
- **ASM** is F5's web application firewall (WAF) solution. It allows users to tailor acceptable and expected application behavior on a per-application basis. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/pdf/products/big-ip-application-security-manager-overview.pdf).
- **AVR** provides detailed charts and graphs to give users more insight into the performance of web applications, with detailed views on HTTP and TCP stats, as well as system performance (CPU, memory, etc.). For more information, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/training/community/analytics/html/class1/class1.html).

## Requirements

Elasticsearch is needed to store and search data, and Kibana is needed for visualizing and managing it. You can use our hosted Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud, which is recommended, or self-manage the Elastic Stack on your hardware.

The reference link for requirements of telemetry streaming is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/prereqs.html).

The reference link for requirements of Application Services 3(AS3) Extension is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/userguide/prereqs.html).

This module has been tested against `F5 BIG-IP version 16.1.0`, `Telemetry Streaming version 1.32.0` and `AS3 version 3.40.0`.

## Setup

### To collect LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, and AVR data from F5 BIG-IP, the user has to configure modules in F5 BIG-IP as per the requirements.

To set up the F5 BIG-IP environment, users can use the BIG-IP system browser-based Configuration Utility or the command line tools that are provided. For more information related to the configuration of F5 BIG-IP servers, refer to F5 support website [here](https://support.f5.com/csp/knowledge-center/software).

### Configuration of Telemetry Streaming in F5

For downloading and installing Telemetry Streaming, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/installation.html).

Telemetry Streaming will send logs in the JSON format to the destination. Telemetry Streaming is compatible with **BIG-IP versions 13.0 and later**. Users have to prepare F5 servers for it and set up the Telemetry Streaming Consumer.

To use telemetry streaming, user have to send **POST** request on `https://<BIG-IP>/mgmt/shared/telemetry/declare` for declaration.

Sample declaration to set up Telemetry Streaming Consumer(Generic_HTTP) is as follows:
```
{
    "class": "Telemetry",
       "My_System": {
        "class": "Telemetry_System",
        "systemPoller": {
            "interval": <INTERVAL>
        }
    },
    "My_Listener": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Listener",
        "port": 6514
    },
    "My_Consumer": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Consumer",
        "type": "Generic_HTTP",
        "host": "<HOST-IP>",
        "protocol": "http",
        "port": <PORT>,
        "path": "/",
        "method": "POST",
        "headers": [
            {
                "name": "content-type",
                "value": "application/json"
            }
        ],
        "outputMode": "processed"
    }
}
```
For more information related to Generic HTTP consumers, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/setting-up-consumer.html#generic-http).

To set up TLS client authentication in Generic HTTP consumer, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/declarations.html#generic-http-consumer-with-tls-client-authentication).

Sample declaration to set up Telemetry Streaming Consumer(AWS_S3) is as follows:
```
{
    "class": "Telemetry",
    "My_System": {
        "class": "Telemetry_System",
        "systemPoller": {
            "interval": <INTERVAL>
        }
    },
    "My_Listener": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Listener",
        "port": 6514
    },
    "My_Consumer": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Consumer",
        "type": "AWS_S3",
        "region": "<AWS_REGION>",
        "bucket": "<BUCKET_NAME>",
        "username": "<ACCESS_KEY_ID>",
        "passphrase": {
            "cipherText": "<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
        }
    }
}
```
F5 BIG-IP modules named LTM, AFM, ASM, and APM are not configured by Telemetry Streaming, they must be configured with AS3 or another method. Reference link for setup AS3 extension in F5 BIG-IP is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/).

To configure logging using AS3, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/event-listener.html?highlight=as3#configure-logging-using-as3).

### To collect data from AWS S3 Bucket, follow the below steps:
- Create an Amazon S3 bucket. Refer to the link [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html).
- The default value of the "Bucket List Prefix" is listed below. However, the user can set the parameter "Bucket List Prefix" according to the requirement.


  | Data Stream Name  | Bucket List Prefix                                                |
  | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | Log               | `<Bucket list prefix which has been created in AWS S3>`           |

### To collect data from AWS SQS, follow the below steps:
1. If data forwarding to an AWS S3 Bucket hasn't been configured, then first set up an AWS S3 Bucket as mentioned in the above documentation.
2. To set up an SQS queue, follow "Step 1: Create an Amazon SQS queue" mentioned in the [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html).
  - While creating an SQS Queue, please provide the same bucket ARN that has been generated after creating an AWS S3 Bucket.
3. Set up event notifications for an S3 bucket. Follow this [link](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-event-notifications.html).
  - Users have to set the prefix parameter the same as the S3 Bucket List Prefix as created earlier. (for example, `log/` for a log data stream.)
  - Select the event type as s3:ObjectCreated:*, select the destination type SQS Queue, and select the queue that has been created in Step 2.

**Note**:
  - Credentials for the above AWS S3 and SQS input types should be configured using the [link](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-input-aws-s3.html#aws-credentials-config).
  - Data collection via AWS S3 Bucket and AWS SQS are mutually exclusive in this case.

### Enabling the integration in Elastic

1. In Kibana go to **Management > Integrations**.
2. In the "Search for integrations" search bar, type **F5 BIG-IP**.
3. Click on **F5 BIG-IP** integration from the search results.
4. Click on the **Add F5 BIG-IP** button to add F5 BIG-IP integration.
5. Enable the Integration to collect logs via AWS S3 or HTTP endpoint input.

## Logs Reference

### log

This is the `log` dataset.

#### Example

{{event "log"}}

{{fields "log"}}

Commit message:

Add support of Ihealth, system, BOT and DOS logs. 1. Add support of new fields of ASM. 2. Handle N/A values in all the pipelines. 3. Disabled all the input type by default as per new best practice. 4. Removed event.type and event.category from main pipeline and set in individual pipeline. 5. Add tags in all the pipelines. 6. Add support of one more date format in event_timestamp field of ltm pipeline.

packages/f5_bigip/_dev/build/docs/README.md, after:

# F5 BIG-IP

## Overview

The [F5 BIG-IP](https://www.f5.com/products/big-ip-services) integration allows users to monitor LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, AVR, System Information, IHealth Information, BOT and DOS activity. F5 BIG-IP covers software and hardware designed around application availability, access control, and security solutions.

Use the F5 BIG-IP integration to collect and parse data from F5 BIG-IP using **telemetry streaming** and then visualize that data in Kibana. The integration currently only supports JSON-formatted telemetry data generated by following F5 features: LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, AVR, System Information and Ihealth Information. Ingesting or parsing the **syslog events** produced at the operating system level is not supported. Use the [Custom Logs integration](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/log) to ingest these system-level log messages instead.

The F5 BIG-IP integration can be used in three different modes to collect data:
- **HTTP Endpoint mode** - F5 BIG-IP pushes logs directly to an HTTP endpoint hosted by users’ Elastic Agent.
- **AWS S3 polling mode** - F5 BIG-IP writes data to S3 and Elastic Agent polls the S3 bucket by listing its contents and reading new files.
- **AWS S3 SQS mode** - F5 BIG-IP writes data to S3, S3 pushes a new object notification to SQS, Elastic Agent receives the notification from SQS, and then reads the S3 object. Multiple Agents can be used in this mode.

For example, users can use the data from this integration to analyze the traffic that passes through their F5 BIG-IP network.

## Data streams

The F5 BIG-IP integration collects one type of data stream: log.

**Log** help users to keep a record of events happening on the network using telemetry streaming.
The log data stream collected by the F5 BIG-IP integration includes events that are related to network traffic. See more details in the [logs examples documentation](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/output-example.html). F5 BIG-IP streams a variety of log types, categorized by the `telemetryEventCategory` field.

This integration targets the eight types of events as mentioned below:

- **LTM** provides the platform for creating virtual servers, performance, service, protocol, authentication, and security profiles to define and shape users’ application traffic. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/big-ip-services/local-traffic-manager).
- **AFM** is designed to reduce the hardware and extra hops required when ADC's are paired with traditional firewalls and helps to protect traffic destined for the user's data center. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/security/advanced-firewall-manager).
- **APM** provides federation, SSO, application access policies, and secure web tunneling and allows granular access to users' various applications, virtualized desktop environments, or just go full VPN tunnel. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/products/security/access-policy-manager).
- **ASM** is F5's web application firewall (WAF) solution. It allows users to tailor acceptable and expected application behavior on a per-application basis. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://www.f5.com/pdf/products/big-ip-application-security-manager-overview.pdf).
  - **BOT and DOS** provides detailes about the bot events and distributed dos attacks events related to F5 BIG-IP. For more information on BOT, refer to the link [here](https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K17680287). For more information on DOS, refer to the link [here](https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K75699030).
- **AVR** provides detailed charts and graphs to give users more insight into the performance of web applications, with detailed views on HTTP and TCP stats, as well as system performance (CPU, memory, etc.). For more information, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/training/community/analytics/html/class1/class1.html).
- **System Information** provides the system information that F5 BIG-IP Telemetry Streaming collects. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/output-example.html#system-information).
- **IHealth Information** highlights vulnerability and importance, potentially leading to memory exhaustion if exploited. It also directs to a solution article for further details and specifies unaffected F5 products. For more information, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/output-example.html#ihealth-information-request).

## Requirements

Elasticsearch is needed to store and search data, and Kibana is needed for visualizing and managing it. You can use our hosted Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud, which is recommended, or self-manage the Elastic Stack on your hardware.

The reference link for requirements of telemetry streaming is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/prereqs.html).

The reference link for requirements of Application Services 3(AS3) Extension is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/userguide/prereqs.html).

This module has been tested against `F5 BIG-IP version 16.1.0`, `Telemetry Streaming version 1.32.0` and `AS3 version 3.40.0`.

## Setup

### To collect LTM, AFM, APM, ASM, AVR, System Information and Ihealth Information data from F5 BIG-IP, the user has to configure modules in F5 BIG-IP as per the requirements.

To set up the F5 BIG-IP environment, users can use the BIG-IP system browser-based Configuration Utility or the command line tools that are provided. For more information related to the configuration of F5 BIG-IP servers, refer to F5 support website [here](https://support.f5.com/csp/knowledge-center/software).

### Configuration of Telemetry Streaming in F5

For downloading and installing Telemetry Streaming, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/installation.html).

Telemetry Streaming will send logs in the JSON format to the destination. Telemetry Streaming is compatible with **BIG-IP versions 13.0 and later**. Users have to prepare F5 servers for it and set up the Telemetry Streaming Consumer.

To use telemetry streaming, user have to send **POST** request on `https://<BIG-IP>/mgmt/shared/telemetry/declare` for declaration.

Sample declaration to set up Telemetry Streaming Consumer(Generic_HTTP) is as follows:
```
{
    "class": "Telemetry",
       "My_System": {
        "class": "Telemetry_System",
        "systemPoller": {
            "interval": <INTERVAL>
        }
    },
    "My_Listener": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Listener",
        "port": 6514
    },
    "My_Consumer": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Consumer",
        "type": "Generic_HTTP",
        "host": "<HOST-IP>",
        "protocol": "http",
        "port": <PORT>,
        "path": "/",
        "method": "POST",
        "headers": [
            {
                "name": "content-type",
                "value": "application/json"
            }
        ],
        "outputMode": "processed"
    }
}
```
For more information related to Generic HTTP consumers, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/setting-up-consumer.html#generic-http).

To set up TLS client authentication in Generic HTTP consumer, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/declarations.html#generic-http-consumer-with-tls-client-authentication).

Sample declaration to set up Telemetry Streaming Consumer(AWS_S3) is as follows:
```
{
    "class": "Telemetry",
    "My_System": {
        "class": "Telemetry_System",
        "systemPoller": {
            "interval": <INTERVAL>
        }
    },
    "My_Listener": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Listener",
        "port": 6514
    },
    "My_Consumer": {
        "class": "Telemetry_Consumer",
        "type": "AWS_S3",
        "region": "<AWS_REGION>",
        "bucket": "<BUCKET_NAME>",
        "username": "<ACCESS_KEY_ID>",
        "passphrase": {
            "cipherText": "<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
        }
    }
}
```
F5 BIG-IP modules named LTM, AFM, ASM, and APM are not configured by Telemetry Streaming, they must be configured with AS3 or another method. Reference link for setup AS3 extension in F5 BIG-IP is [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/).

To configure logging using AS3, refer to the link [here](https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-telemetry-streaming/latest/event-listener.html?highlight=as3#configure-logging-using-as3).

### To collect data from AWS S3 Bucket, follow the below steps:
- Create an Amazon S3 bucket. Refer to the link [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html).
- The default value of the "Bucket List Prefix" is listed below. However, the user can set the parameter "Bucket List Prefix" according to the requirement.


  | Data Stream Name  | Bucket List Prefix                                                |
  | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | Log               | `<Bucket list prefix which has been created in AWS S3>`           |

### To collect data from AWS SQS, follow the below steps:
1. If data forwarding to an AWS S3 Bucket hasn't been configured, then first set up an AWS S3 Bucket as mentioned in the above documentation.
2. To set up an SQS queue, follow "Step 1: Create an Amazon SQS queue" mentioned in the [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html).
  - While creating an SQS Queue, please provide the same bucket ARN that has been generated after creating an AWS S3 Bucket.
3. Set up event notifications for an S3 bucket. Follow this [link](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-event-notifications.html).
  - Users have to set the prefix parameter the same as the S3 Bucket List Prefix as created earlier. (for example, `log/` for a log data stream.)
  - Select the event type as s3:ObjectCreated:*, select the destination type SQS Queue, and select the queue that has been created in Step 2.

**Note**:
  - Credentials for the above AWS S3 and SQS input types should be configured using the [link](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-input-aws-s3.html#aws-credentials-config).
  - Data collection via AWS S3 Bucket and AWS SQS are mutually exclusive in this case.

### Enabling the integration in Elastic

1. In Kibana go to **Management > Integrations**.
2. In the "Search for integrations" search bar, type **F5 BIG-IP**.
3. Click on **F5 BIG-IP** integration from the search results.
4. Click on the **Add F5 BIG-IP** button to add F5 BIG-IP integration.
5. Enable the Integration to collect logs via AWS S3 or HTTP endpoint input.

## Logs Reference

### log

This is the `log` dataset.

#### Example

{{event "log"}}

{{fields "log"}}
